#TEXT OF RESOLUTIONS.

= CONFERENCE FOR THE ADOPTION OF COMMON METHOD IN DETERMINING THE BEGINNINGS OF THE LUNAR MONTHS AND HOLIDAYS =
==27-30 NOVEMBER 1978==
===TEXT OF RESOLUTIONS===
==IN THE NAME OF GOD, THE MERCIFUL, THE COMPASSIONATE==
===May peace and salvation be upon our Prophet Muhammed, upon His family 
          and companions===
==CONFERENCE FOR DETERMINING THE BEGININGS OF LUNAR MONTHS==
Upon the invitation of the Presidency of Religious Affairs of Turkish Republic, Conference for Determining the beginnings of Lunar Months was held in Istanbul the historical capital of Islam, on 28 November 1978 thru1 30 November 1978/26 Zilhicca thru1 29 Zilhicca 1398 A.H. 
Delegates from the following Islamic Countries joined the Conference. The names of these delegates are given in a separate list attached to this document: 
  * 1- Afghanistan
  * 2- Bahrain
  * 3- Bangladesh
  * 4- United Arab Emirates
  * 5- Algeria
  * 6- Indonesia
  * 7- Morocco
  * 8- Jordan
  * 9- Iraq 
  * 10- Cyprus
  * 11- Kuwait
  * 12- Lebanon
  * 13- Malaysia
  * 14- Central Asia and Kazakistan(U.S.S.R)
  * 15- Pakistan
  * 16- Sudan
  * 17- Saudi Arabia
  * 18- Tunusia
  * 19- Turkey 
       In addition to these countries, the following establishments were also represented in the Conference
  * 20- Brussels Islamic Centre
  * 21- Paris Islamic Centre
  * 22- Rabıtatu' l Alemi-I Islami 
 The conference is held as one of the series of conferences held fof the same purposes. It aims at completing and developing the results arrived at both in Kualalumpur(Malaysia) Conference and the Conference of the Ministers of Awqaf held in Kuwait.

 In their papers the delegates have dealt with the sorry situation caused by divergent practices of Muslim's during the beginnings and endings of the Month of Ramadan and during the religions holidays and feast - days.

 Delegates have unanimously agreed on the necessity of tackling with this problem which in fact goes against the principles laid down by the verses of the Holy Kur'an which clearly states: "Surely this community of your in one community" Thus, the muslims are not permitted to follow divergent paths in religious matters. In the following verse God, the most High, command solidarity and unity: "And hold you fast to God's bond, together, and do not scatter".
 
 In the conference two committees of inquiry were established: Committee of Religion;Committee of Astronomers. In each committee the specialists worked on the papers that came under their specializations. After a detailed and comprehensive discussion, the Conference unanimously accepted the following resolutions.

       1-What is basic is to see the moon; whether it is seen simply by naked human eye, or, through modern astronomical obseryatjons makes no difference whatsoever.
       
       2- So as to take the astronomers' account into consed eration from a religion point of view, they ought to base their astronomical observations upon the fact that the moon could be mm in the horizon by human eye after the sun - set And after the elimination all the obstacles which hinder the visibility of the moon. This is called "Visibility by iudgment (Hükmiru'yet)

